# Overview

The Org Effectiveness Data app updates the data used in the Org Effectiveness Dashboard and underlying data models.

## Inputs

The app takes in csv files containing raw labour cost data from JDE along with processed FTE data.

## Outputs

The app outputs an XLSX file with the data for the Organisational Effectiveness Dashboard.

## Version

Version Number 0.00.1\
App last updated 14 November 2025

## Compatability
- python 3.8, 3.11
- pandas 1.2, 2.3

## Dependencies

- pandas
- pyarrow.

## Required Files

The following files are required:

- FTE Summary Data Full
- Labour Cost file from JDE
- Cost Center Mapping file.

## Preparation

The following should be completed prior to running the script:

- Update the Cost Center Mapping file using the Cost Center Audits app
	- Ensure all the JDE Business Units are mapped through to a Workday Business Units
- Complete the FTE reporting for the most recent month
	- The FTE Summary Data Full file needs to be generated by the Budget Pack Summaries script
- Receive the Labour Report from Finance and prepare the file.	

# Operation

- Place the required files into the script folder
	- Cost Center Mapping file into the Mapping folder
	- FTE and Labour Cost files into the Source folder
- At the command line, navigate to the folder where the app file is located
- Enter `jupyter lab`
- Run the Generate_Org_Effeftiveness_Data Jupyter Notebook
- Update the month_year variable with the latest actual month reported (e.g. 'October_2025')
- Restart the Kernal and Run All Cells
- Check for any entries that are not mapped to a Workday Business Unit
	- A message will be printed stating there are entries without a Business Unit
	- A file will be saved to the Troubleshooting folder with the JDE Business Unit Codes that are not mapped.
- Update the Cost Center Mapping file and repeat until all Labour Cost entries are accounted for (assigned to a Workday Business Unit)
- Review the output of the script
- Add the new data to the Organisational Effectiveness Dashboard, overwriting previous data where necessary
- Hide the data sheet, refresh the data, save the file and upload to SharePoint (overwriting the existing file).

# Files used

## Cost Center Mapping File

### File Name

cost_center_mapping.csv

### Contents

Each JDE Business Unit and how it maps to a Workday Cost Center and through to a Workday Business Unit.

### Structure

cost_center_jde, company_jde, company_name_jde, business_unit_jde, business_unit_description_jde,
g_l_reporting_code_14_jde, cost_center_wd, cost_center_code_wd, cost_center_name_wd, business_unit_wd.

### Source

Manually maintained. Updated using the Cost Center Audits app.

## FTE Summary Data File

### File Name

fte_summary_data_full_Month_2025.csv

### Contents

FTE, Headcount, Terminations and Open and Filled Position counts by Business Unit per month back to May 2020.

### Structure

Month, Business Unit, Metric Type, Budgeted FTE, FTE, Average Headcount, Voluntary Leavers, Involuntary Leavers, Total Leavers,
12 Month Rolling Turnover, Open Positions FTE, Filled Positions FTE.

### Source

Generated by the Budget Pack Summaries script.

## Labour Report File

### File Name

labour_cost_full_Month_2025.csv

### Contents

Labour costs for each JDE Business Unit for each month (most recent actual and each forecast month to end of year).

### Structure

G/L Reporting Code 34, G/L Reporting Code 14, Business Unit, Business Unit Description, Company, Company Name, Category,
G/L Reporting Code 3, G/L Reporting Code 4, Most Recent Month Actual Year, Most Recent Month Budget Year, Forecast for each remaining month in year.

### Source

Received from Finance as an export from JDE.

### Preparation

The file needs the top rows removed so that the first row is the column headers. The data columns need to be converted to numbers so that the commas are removed.

# Development

## To Do

### Development

- Move to a script
- Add Headcount and Number of Leaders to the data
- Add processing of Revenue and EBIT data (if can receive from Finance in a better format).
